---
title: Runtime API
---

The `sapper/runtime.js` module contains functions for controlling your app and responding to events. More functions will be added in future versions.


### init({ target, manifest })

* `target` — an element to render pages to
* `manifest` — an object generated by Sapper from your `routes` directory

This configures the router and starts the application — listens for clicks on `<a>` elements, interacts with the `history` API, and renders and updates your Svelte components.

Returns a `Promise` that resolves when the initial page has been hydrated.

```js
import { init } from 'sapper/runtime.js';
import { routes } from './manifest/client.js';

init({
	target: document.querySelector('#sapper'),
	manifest
}).then(() => {
	console.log('client-side app has started');
});
```


### goto(href, [options])

* `href` — the page to go to
* `options` — can include a `replaceState` property, which determines whether to use `history.pushState` (the default) or `history.replaceState`). Not required

Programmatically navigates to the given `href`. If the destination is a Sapper route, Sapper will handle the navigation, otherwise the page will be reloaded with the new `href`. (In other words, the behaviour is as though the user clicked on a link with this `href`.)


### prefetch(href)

* `href` — the page to prefetch

Programmatically prefetches the given page, which means a) ensuring that the code for the page is loaded, and b) calling the page's `preload` method with the appropriate options. This is the same behaviour that Sapper triggers when the user taps or mouses over an `<a>` element with [rel=prefetch](guide#prefetching).



### prefetchRoutes([routes])

* `routes` — an optional array of strings representing routes to prefetch

Programmatically prefetches the code for routes that haven't yet been fetched. Typically, you might call this after `init` is complete, to speed up subsequent navigation. Omitting arguments will cause all routes to be fetched, or you can specify routes by any matching pathname such as `/about` (to match `routes/about.html`) or `/blog/*` (to match `routes/blog/[slug].html`). Unlike `prefetch`, this won't call `preload` for individual pages.
